= Rich

Rich is an opinionated implementation of CKEditor for Rails 3.1. It includes a stripped down toolbar, simplified dialogs and a custom file manager.

Presently, Rich integrates with Formtastic (1.x) and regular Rails forms.

== Goals

1. Keep the CKEditor source our of your project.
2. Sensible defaults. We don't want our users to insert tables, smilies or other frivolities that will do nothing but ruin a lovingly crafted design.
3. Make it easy to customize these defaults.
4. Implement a usable (and easily configurable) file manager that serves up images that fit your specific design.

It should be noted that while a major point of this project was to remove many things from CKEditor, all that stuff is still in there and can be easily re-enabled through the initializer.

== Quick install

Rich is available as a Ruby Gem, which makes installation very easy.

  # In your Gemfile (Rails >= 3.1)
  gem 'rich'
  
After updating your bundle, run the installer.

  $> rails generate rich:install

The installer sets up a route, creates an initializer for configuration and adds a javascript and CSS file. It also creates a migration, so we need to migrate the database.

  $> rake db:migrate
  
As a last step, secure the file manager by setting your authentication method in <tt>/config/initializers/rich.rb</tt>. If you're using Devise with an AdminUser model (incidentally, the Active Admin defaults):
  config.authentication_method = :authenticate_admin_user!
  
You're good to go.

== Usage

To use Rich, it's javascript file must be loaded. By default, this is already setup for you because Rails loads all Javascript files through the <tt>require_tree .</tt> command in application.js. If you've removed that line, manually load rich by requiring it.

  //= require rich
  
=== In a Rails form

Use the <tt>rich_text_area</tt> command to insert Rich.

  <%= form_for(@post) do |f| %>
    <div class="field">
      <%= f.label :name %><br />
      <%= f.text_field :name %>
    </div>
    <div class="field">
      <%= f.label :title %><br />
      <%= f.text_field :title %>
    </div>
    <div class="field">
      <%= f.label :content %><br />
      <%= f.rich_text_area :body %>
    </div>
    <div class="actions">
      <%= f.submit %>
    </div>
  <% end %>

=== Formtastic

Use <tt>:as => :rich</tt> to insert Rich. At this time, Rich only works with Formtastic 1. Version 2 is not supported. Using it is very simple, like so:

  <%= semantic_form_for @post do |f| %>
     <%= f.inputs do %>
       <%= f.input :name %>
       <%= f.input :title %>
       <%= f.input :body, :as => :rich %>
     <% end %>
     <%= f.buttons do %>
       <%= f.commit_button %>
     <% end %>
   <% end %>
   
=== Active Admin

Since Active Admin actually uses Formtastic, you can use it with Rich out of the box. In your model configuration file, set up your form like this.

  form do |f|
    f.inputs "Basic info" do
      f.input :title
      f.input :body, :as => :rich
    end
    f.buttons
  end

If you're annoyed by the fact that the Rich editor overlaps the field label (I was!), add the following to your <tt>/app/assets/stylesheets/active_admin.css.scss</tt>.

  .cke_skin_kama {
  	margin-left: 20%;
  }
  
== Caveats — Rich in production mode

If you want to run Rich in production mode, you need to make two changes to your <tt>config/environments/production.rb</tt>.

  config.assets.compile = true

This setting will instruct Rails to serve up any assets that have not been precompiled. The reason we need this is that CKEditor will attempt to load many javascript files on its own. Since all of these files have been merged into one large file by Sprockets and are no longer available on their own, that will not work. Unless you change this setting.

  config.assets.compress = false
  
This setting will keep Rails from compressing CSS (and, unfortunately, javascript). This is required because CKEditor contains some CSS that SASS (the default compressor) doesn't like.

We're not very happy about these required changes, and will do our best work around them. If anyone has ideas, get in touch.

== Configuration and overrides

=== CKEditor configuration

=== Editor styles

=== Image configuration

=== Per-editor overrides

== Roadmap

* Formtastic 2 support (waiting for Active Admin to make the switch)

== Inspiration

Much of this project is heavily inspired by Igor Galeta's ckeditor gem. Also, inspiration comes from Francesc Esplugas' Ckeditor gem and Active Admin.

== Tools used

* Valum's FileUploader - https://github.com/valums/file-uploader
* Rack Raw Upload - https://github.com/newbamboo/rack-raw-upload

== Copyright

Rich was created by Bastiaan Terhorst and sponsored by Perceptor (http://perceptor.nl).

This project is licenced under the MIT License. See MIT-LICENSE for details.